README.md, before:

# [SQRL](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl/) &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/LICENSE) [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sqrl.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sqrl) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

SQRL is a Safe, Stateful Rules Language for Event Streams

**Instant** – New features and rules can be deployed to production in seconds.

**Inclusive** – Non-technical users can review and safely deploy changes to production without talking to an engineer.

**Powerful** – Rules can declaratively aggregate state, trigger side effects, and call functions in other languages.

**Auditable** – It’s easy to understand why a rule fired or a side effect occurred, and rules can be safely replayed.

## Early Preview

This is an early preview of the SQRL (Smyte Query and Rules Language) open-source release. This release is intended to onboard existing community members and prepare us for a full release in the near future. Through SQRL, we hope to partner with the open source community, and help better address spam on all websites.

## Documentation

You can find the **SQRL** (Smyte Query & Rules Language) documentation [on the website](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl).

## Support

Create a [new issue](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/issues/new) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We feel that a welcoming community is important and we ask that you follow Twitter's
[Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/twitter/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
in all interactions with the community.

## Authors

SQRL was designed and implemented by:
* Josh Yudaken
* Pete Hunt
* Julian Tempelsman
* Paul Mou
* Yunjing Xu
* David Newman

It would not have come together without lots of dogfooding and suggestions from:
* Jonathan Root
* Alana Glassco
* Jason Wu

Special thanks to [Justin Tormey](https://github.com/jtormey) for contributing the NPM package namespace.

A full list of [contributors](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/graphs/contributors?type=a) can be found on GitHub.

Follow [@TwitterOSS](https://twitter.com/twitteross) on Twitter for updates.

## License

Copyright 2018 Twitter, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Security Issues?

Please report sensitive security issues via Twitter's bug-bounty program (https://hackerone.com/twitter) rather than GitHub.

Commit message:

update readme and link to other SQRL project (#104)

README.md, after:

# [SQRL](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl/) &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/LICENSE) [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sqrl.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sqrl) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

The Smyte Query and Rules Language (SQRL) is a Safe, Stateful Rules Language for Event Streams

**Instant** – New features and rules can be deployed to production in seconds.

**Inclusive** – Non-technical users can review and safely deploy changes to production without talking to an engineer.

**Powerful** – Rules can declaratively aggregate state, trigger side effects, and call functions in other languages.

**Auditable** – It’s easy to understand why a rule fired or a side effect occurred, and rules can be safely replayed.

If you were looking for the [Secure Quick Reliable Login project, check here](https://www.grc.com/sqrl/sqrl.htm).

## Early Preview

This is an early preview of SQRL open-source release. This release is intended to onboard existing community members and prepare us for a full release in the near future. Through SQRL, we hope to partner with the open source community, and help better address spam on all websites.

## Documentation

You can find the **SQRL** (Smyte Query & Rules Language) documentation [on the website](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl).

## Support

Create a [new issue](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/issues/new) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We feel that a welcoming community is important and we ask that you follow Twitter's
[Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/twitter/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
in all interactions with the community.

## Authors

SQRL was designed and implemented by:
* Josh Yudaken
* Pete Hunt
* Julian Tempelsman
* Paul Mou
* Yunjing Xu
* David Newman

It would not have come together without lots of dogfooding and suggestions from:
* Jonathan Root
* Alana Glassco
* Jason Wu

Special thanks to [Justin Tormey](https://github.com/jtormey) for contributing the NPM package namespace.

A full list of [contributors](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/graphs/contributors?type=a) can be found on GitHub.

Follow [@TwitterOSS](https://twitter.com/twitteross) on Twitter for updates.

## License

Copyright 2018 Twitter, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Security Issues?

Please report sensitive security issues via Twitter's bug-bounty program (https://hackerone.com/twitter) rather than GitHub.
