packages/sqrl-text-functions/README.md, before:

# [SQRL](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl/) &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/LICENSE) [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sqrl.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sqrl) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

# `sqrl-text-functions` package

This package includes functions for working with text. It may be useful as a starting point for creating your own simple SQRL function packs.

## simhash(text)

This uses the off the shelf `simhash-js` package to compute a [simhash](https://matpalm.com/resemblance/simhash/) of the given string.

## patternMatches(filename, text)

This loads in a file with newline separated regular expressions and matches them against the provided text.

# SQRL documentation

Please see [the website](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl) for full **SQRL** documentation

## Support

Create a [new issue](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/issues/new) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We feel that a welcoming community is important and we ask that you follow Twitter's
[Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/twitter/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
in all interactions with the community.

## License

Copyright 2018 Twitter, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Security Issues?

Please report sensitive security issues via Twitter's bug-bounty program (https://hackerone.com/twitter) rather than GitHub.

Commit message:

Add config concept to SQRL (#45)
* Add config concept to SQRL

* Cleanup built-in functions, and add in depth bool test

* Large refoctor moving cli-related functions into new package

* Move log() function to cli-functions

* Update website and snapshots

* Fix support for `.repeated`

packages/sqrl-text-functions/README.md, after:

# [SQRL](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl/) &middot; [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-blue.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/LICENSE) [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sqrl.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sqrl) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/twitter/sqrl.svg?branch=master) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

# `sqrl-text-functions` package

This package includes functions for working with text. It may be useful as a starting point for creating your own simple SQRL function packs.

## Function documentation

See [sqrl-text-functions documentation](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl/packages/sqrl-text-functions.html) on the website

# SQRL documentation

Please see [the website](https://twitter.github.io/sqrl) for full **SQRL** documentation

## Support

Create a [new issue](https://github.com/twitter/sqrl/issues/new) on GitHub.

## Contributing

We feel that a welcoming community is important and we ask that you follow Twitter's
[Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/twitter/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
in all interactions with the community.

## License

Copyright 2018 Twitter, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Security Issues?

Please report sensitive security issues via Twitter's bug-bounty program (https://hackerone.com/twitter) rather than GitHub.
