website/source/packages/sqrl-redis-functions.md, before:

title: sqrl-redis-functions
---

# sqrl-redis-functions

## addLabel

**addLabel**(entity | entity list, label)

Adds the provided label to the specified entities

## count

**count**(BY Feature[, ...] [WHERE Condition] [LAST Timespan])

Returns the streaming count

Timespans: LAST DAY, LAST EIGHT DAYS, LAST HOUR, LAST MONTH, LAST TWO DAYS, LAST TWO WEEKS, LAST WEEK
           DAY OVER DAY, DAY OVER WEEK, WEEK OVER WEEK
           TOTAL

## countUnique

**countUnique**(Feature[, ...] [GROUP BY Feature[, ...]] [WHERE Condition] [LAST Duration] [BEFORE ACTION])

Performs a sliding window unique set count

## entity

**entity**(type, key)

Create an entity of the given type

## entityList

**entityList**(type, keys)

Create a list of entities of the given type

## hasLabel

**hasLabel**(entity, label)

Returns true if the provided entity has the given label

## rateLimit

**rateLimit**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Returns the number of tokens left in the token bucket ratelimiter before decrementing

## rateLimited

**rateLimited**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Returns true if the token bucket rate limiter has no tokens left, false otherwise

## rateLimitedValues

**rateLimitedValues**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Returns the values that were rate limited by the token bucket rate limiter

## removeLabel

**removeLabel**(entity | entity list, label)

Removes the provided label to the specified entities

## sessionize

**sessionize**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Creates a new session using a token bucket rate limiter

## trending

**trending**(Feature[, ...] [WHERE Condition] [WITH MIN Count EVENTS] (DAY OVER DAY / DAY OVER WEEK / DAY OVER FULL WEEK))

None

Commit message:

Function cleanup (#51)
* Function cleanup

* Improve sort function

* Move sha256 to text-functions

* Replace `nonNullBool` with `ifNull` function

* More documentation and tests

website/source/packages/sqrl-redis-functions.md, after:

title: sqrl-redis-functions
---

# sqrl-redis-functions

Functions that store state in redis. This consists of counting, labeling and entity to unique id mapping.

## addLabel

**addLabel**(entity | entity list, label)

Adds the provided label to the specified entities

## count

**count**(BY Feature[, ...] [WHERE Condition] [LAST Timespan])

Returns the streaming count

Timespans: LAST DAY, LAST EIGHT DAYS, LAST HOUR, LAST MONTH, LAST TWO DAYS, LAST TWO WEEKS, LAST WEEK
           DAY OVER DAY, DAY OVER WEEK, WEEK OVER WEEK
           TOTAL

## countUnique

**countUnique**(Feature[, ...] [GROUP BY Feature[, ...]] [WHERE Condition] [LAST Duration] [BEFORE ACTION])

Performs a sliding window unique set count

## entity

**entity**(type, key)

Create an entity of the given type

## entityList

**entityList**(type, keys)

Create a list of entities of the given type

## hasLabel

**hasLabel**(entity, label)

Returns true if the provided entity has the given label

## rateLimit

**rateLimit**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Returns the number of tokens left in the token bucket ratelimiter before decrementing

## rateLimited

**rateLimited**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Returns true if the token bucket rate limiter has no tokens left, false otherwise

## rateLimitedValues

**rateLimitedValues**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Returns the values that were rate limited by the token bucket rate limiter

## removeLabel

**removeLabel**(entity | entity list, label)

Removes the provided label to the specified entities

## sessionize

**sessionize**(BY Feature[, ...] [MAX Tokens] EVERY Duration [REFILL Count] [TAKE Count] [STRICT] [WHERE Condition])

Creates a new session using a token bucket rate limiter

## trending

**trending**(Feature[, ...] [WHERE Condition] [WITH MIN Count EVENTS] (DAY OVER DAY / DAY OVER WEEK / DAY OVER FULL WEEK))

Returns values whose counts have gone up by an order of magnitude
